 Economy   China Economy
Coronavirus Chinas talks up economic growth prospects premier says small businesses must survive

    After the worst two months for decades the Peoples Bank of China says economy is expected to make a swift return to its expected growth pattern
    Premier Li Keqiang says the government must try all possible ways to help small companies to get back on their feet


Chinas major economic indicators are expected to rebound sharply in the second quarter a senior central bank official said on Sunday after the nations premier said earlier that the government will do all it can to ensure small businesses survive the recent downturn.
Chen Yulu a deputy governor at the Peoples Bank of China
said that based on the central banks monitoring of payment and settlement data in March the economy was on course to make a swift return to its expected growth pattern.

Zhou Liang a vicechairman of the China Banking and Insurance Regulatory Commission added that corporate accounts had shown improvement in terms of both cash flow and business activity.

Transactions in the accounts of small and micro enterprises in early March increased 29 per cent from late February he said.
We must try all possible ways to let small businesses and selfemployed businesses survive Li Keqiang
Despite that upbeat assessment Chinese Premier Li Keqiang said on Friday that many small and mediumsized companies  which are a key component of Chinas supply chain
 were still struggling to get production back up to speed and that the government must provide them with additional support.

His comments came during a conference call with government officials sent to help companies resume production after the shutdowns imposed to help contain the coronavirus outbreak.
After hearing reports from Guangzhoubased GAC Group  one of the countrys largest carmakers  and the Zhengzhou factory of Foxconn  the worlds largest iPhone maker  Li said that while large industrial firms had been able to quickly restore production smaller ones were finding it more difficult and that posed a threat to value chains and employment.

We must try all possible ways to let small businesses and selfemployed businesses survive he said in a statement published on the governments website.
China reported huge falls in industrial output and investment
in the first two months of this year suggesting an economic contraction for the first quarter is now almost inevitable. The last time the country reported an official economic contraction was in 1976 the final year of the Cultural Revolution.

While China is showing signs of recovering from the health crisis  it reported just 46 new cases on Saturday of which all but one were imported  restrictions remain on the movement of people and vehicles.

Vicepremier Hu Chunhua said that any unreasonable regulations that hindered the resumption of production should be abolished and that support measures should be rolled out in a timely manner.
For the owners of Chinas smallest businesses
that help cannot come to soon. And for some it may already be too late.

Zhong Bin who runs a noodle restaurant in Guangzhou said he had already been forced to fire one of his three workers and was struggling to find the money to pay the others and his rent.

The government measures wont relieve our problems in time and are not practical for us. We have no idea even which department to go to for help he said.

No officials have been to see us and obviously no bank will lend money to such a small shop.

