 Hong Kong braces for the return of hot money in search of yield, as nearzero rates resurrect the era of cheap funds

    An estimated US$130 billion of capital flooded Hong Kong between 2008 and 2015, HKMAs data showed
    This time around, hot money may find its way into mainland China markets instead, analysts say

he Hang Seng Index soared by 10 per cent on October 30, 2008, after the US Federal Reserves interest rate cuts. The index would soar 52 per cent the following year. Photo EPA
Hong Kongs monetary authority, which spent two decades amassing one of the worlds largest foreign exchange holdings, is bracing for the return of hot money after the US Federal Reserve executed an unprecedented onetwo punch of rate cuts to fight the coronavirus pandemic
.

An estimated US$130 billion of funds flooded Hong Kong between the global financial crisis in December 2008 and the end of the US Feds quantitative easing (QE) seven years later, as rate cuts meant to salvage a US economy fuelled asset prices half a world away.
The Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA) has to run its monetary policy in lockstep with the US central bank to maintain the local currencys threedecade peg
against the US dollar.
Now, with a 61basis point gap between Hong Kong and US central bank lending rates after Sundays latest emergency cut
, the stage is set for a repeat of 2008, the start of a decadelong era of cheap financing that would eventually create the worlds most expensive property market as the flood of liquidity soaked up every tradeable asset from flats to offices, shops and stocks.

We will see strong capital inflow into Hong Kong in the coming years, said Raymond Chan, chief investment officer of AsiaPacific equity at the German fund management company Allianz Global Investors. Zero interest rates and more QE [quantitative easing] in the US will see money flowing into riskier asset classes over time as the hunt remains for yield and returns.
Armed with a US$446.1 billion war chest through the Exchange Fund
, the HKMAs chief executive Eddie Yue Waiman said the de facto central bank is ready for battle, if necessary. The authority, responsible for maintaining the local currencys peg, would buy or sell US dollars in the market to keep the Hong Kong dollar within a trading band.

When there [is] capital inflow, the exchange rate will move to the strong end of the peg. If that happens, the HKMA will sell the Hong Kong dollar and buy the US dollar to weaken the local currency to keep it within the trading band of 7.75 to 7.85 per US dollar, Yue said in a media briefing on Monday.

The spectre of 2008 may not recur because Hong Kongs financial environment and asset prices are different from 12 years ago, some analysts and strategists said.

It will not happen again, said DBS Banks managing director of Greater China wealth management solutions, treasury and markets Tommy Ong, adding that stocks and property are now more expensive than they were in 2008. We are not going to see the same massive amount of hot money flow in Hong Kong this time.

Unlike in 2008, Asias largest capital market in mainland China is now open for foreign funds  albeit in limited amounts  via several crossborder investment channels that link the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock markets with Hong Kong and London. Bonds are also tradeable via the socalled Bond Connect scheme, letting global investors tap Chinese government debt via Hong Kong.

That reduces the demand for Hong Konglisted equities by offering more investible options for global capital, unlike in 2008, when Hong Kong stocks were sought after as proxies for Chinas economic growth, said Ong. To underscore the point, Hong Kongs Hang Seng Index rallied 52 per cent in 2009, surging from the 48per cent slump a year earlier that saw the benchmark falling to 13,425 at the end of 2008.

International investors can invest more in Chinas market directly, bypassing Hong Kong, Ong said.
Coronavirus Is the dramatic collapse of Chinas economy a warning for the rest of world?

The HKMA can be a formidable opponent as shown by the trail of failed speculative attacks by hedge funds on Hong Kong's pegged currency system, one of the last in the world.

Funds mounted one of their most serious challenges to the peg during the 19971998 Asian financial crisis. They met with a spirited defence.
In 1997
, the HKMA allowed overnight interest rates to climb to 300 per cent, starving the funds of liquidity to finance short positions as local banks could only raise funding for their own needs. It also spent HK$118 billion buying bluechip stocks in 1998.

The HKMA went on the defensive most recently last year. The authoritys data showed it intervened 35 times and spent HK$125.61 billion to defend the local currency over the 12 months ending in March 2019.

Another buffer that may deter the inflow of hot money is Hong Kongs property prices, which are still hovering near record levels for luxury flats, retail shops and office buildings, even after more than a year of the USChina trade war and many months of antigovernment protests.

The average price of livedin residential property in Wan Chai on Hong Kong Island  the closest walkable residential suburb near Central  was HK$24,642 per square foot in March, more than double the HK$9,646 per square foot in December 2008. That still makes Hong Kong the worlds most expensive major urban centre to live, work or do business in, by most comparative studies.
Measured against Asian cities like Singapore, or mainland Chinese cities like Beijing, Shanghai or Shenzhen, Hong Kongs property market
looks expensive, said Sammy Po, chief executive of the residential division at Midland Realty, Hong Kongs leading real estate agency.

Back then [in 2008,] the property price dropped 12 per cent in a year. We had international and mainland Chinese buyers who wanted to buy all types of properties from 2009 onwards, Po said.

Hong Kongs stock market is not attractive enough for investors, according to Eleanor Wan, chief executive of BEA Union Investment.

Instead of switching to Hong Kong, investors may prefer to hold cash and stay on the sidelines rather than invest in such a turbulent market, she said.

And hot money may eventually make its way into mainland China, as the Peoples Bank of China shows no signs of relenting on its monetary policy, or following global central banks in their latest round of competitive rate cuts. That places Chinas prime rate, at 4.05 per cent as of February, among the highest out of 11 economic regions, which would attract more global funds in search of higher returns.
For now, investors facing highly volatile markets are being cautious and finding highyielding assets is low on their priority list. Not only are they hoarding cash, fund flows data shows that they are also dumping riskier asset classes such as emerging markets equities
or highyield bonds and retrenching to their home markets to consider their next move.

International investors could be reducing their noncore positions globally (emerging markets in particular) as they brace for extreme volatility and selloffs in their home markets, said Jason Lui, head of equity and derivative strategy APAC of BNP Paribas in a research note on Wednesday.

Hong Kong was also hard hit by the many months of antigovernment protests since June last year, which has led to some capital outflow. This year, because of the spreading coronavirus and slowing economic growth some US$6.7 billion has flowed out of Asia excluding Japan equities, according to EPFR and Goldman Sachs analysis.

Claude Haberer, chairman of Pictet Wealth Management Asia said Hong Kong remains an attractive market even after the social unrest. The fundamentals of Hong Kongs attractiveness to investors have not changed free movement of people, capital and information and the rule of law, Haberer said.

As investors search for a place to park their cash when volatility abates they may once more eye Hong Kong assets.

Well likely see a return of hot money inflow into Hong Kong to invest in the stock market later this year when the pandemic is under control, said Tom Chan Paklam, chairman of Hong Kong's Institute of Securities Dealers, an association of stockbrokers.