South Korean economy to see slower than expected growth in 2020



SEOUL  South Koreas economy is expected to rebound this year from the slowest growth in a decade last year, but it may continue to face many economic headwinds, including sluggish demands at home and abroad, analysts said Monday (Jan 27).

Asias fourthlargest economy grew 2 per cent from a year earlier in 2019, the slowest since 2009, as its exports and facility investment remained weak, the Bank of Korea said last week.

Earlier, the countrys finance ministry expected the economy to grow in the lower 2 pe rcent range. The Bank of Korea also projected the economy to expand 2.3 per cent this year.

We expect the South Korean economy to grow at around 2.1 per cent in 2020. We maintain our growth estimate for this year in that we did not see a clear sign of recovery in private consumption, said Chun Kyuyeon, an economist at Hana Financial Investment.

In 2019, fiscal spending jumped 6.5 per cent onyear, making up shortfalls in other sectors, while private consumption grew 1.9 per cent, slowing from 2.8 per cent a year earlier.

First of all, private spending may somewhat slow down. It is positive that consumer sentiment is improving based on an outlook for better economic conditions and that employment is rising on the governments aggressive job policy, Chun said.

Only, in terms of job quality, we are only seeing a rise in employment in the service sector while employment in the manufacturing and construction sectors remain sluggish, which could work as a limiting factor in boosting consumption, she added.

Lee Younghwa, an analyst at Kyobo Securities, also forecast a 2.1 per cent onyear expansion for the Korean economy this year.

The Korean economy is expected to post an annual growth of 2.1 per cent in 2020 with a steady current account surplus, rate reductions, stimulus measures, such as an extra budget, and quantitative easing by most major economies working as positive factors supporting its economic growth, Lee said.

For the year, outbound shipments are expected to rebound 3 percent from last years 10.3 per cent onyear decline, on reduced uncertainties stemming from a trade row between the United States and China, and a rebound in prices of semiconductors, a key export item. YonhapAsia News Network




