Taiwans government has been pulling out the stops to lure hitech companies back from China, in what has become a key part of its economic agenda. Robot maker, Techman, has been helping its parent company Quanta Computer return to Taiwan. Photo Cissy Zhou

Taiwan manufacturers come home from China, as trade war feeds into economic debate at election

    Government in Taipei has rolled out the red carpet for manufacturers looking to avoid US China trade war tariffs, acting as a boost to the economy
    Economic impact of returning companies a cause of debate in Taiwan election campaign, with opposition party the Kuomintang claiming it has been exaggerated


Against a bright blue sky, a crane is busy laying a foundation for a building site in Taoyuan, a city near the Taiwanese capital of Taipei that is home to many of the islands hitech manufacturers.

A few hundred metres away, a light brown fog of dust and exhaust fumes rise from the site, the smell permeating the air. When finished, this hub of construction activity will be home to a NT$ 950 million (US$ 31.6 million) production complex for Quanta Computer, the worlds largest original design manufacturer of notebook computers, its third in the area.
Quanta moved production of its computer servers out of China and back to Taiwan at the end of 2018, part of a flurry of Taiwanese companies relocating back home, spurred by the prospect of US trade war tariffs
which made exporting to America prohibitively expensive.
However, only a handful of those companies will have made a mark on Chinas economy
like Quanta, whose Shanghai entity was at one point was the mainlands second largest exporting company. Its partial withdrawal from China, then, is particularly symbolic among the wave of Taiwanese companies that are relocating.
Taiwan Presidential Election 2020: What are Taiwanese hoping for?

In order to start production right away, however, Quanta had to ask for help from a subsidiary company, Techman Robot, which had to vacate its facility so that Quanta could move in.
Advertisement

Quanta didnt have any production facilities in Taiwan two years ago, as it had gradually moved production lines to mainland China over the past decades. We sort of gave them our facility overnight, and we needed to find a new facility on our own, Scott Huang, the chief operating officer at Techman Robot told the South China Morning Post.
As the only Taiwanbased manufacturer of collaborative robots  machines designed to work with people  Techman provided about 100 robots to Quanta for its production line. This shows another common and vital factor in the return of Taiwans manufacturers: the need to use robots to replace
human labour.

It is impossible for labour intensive manufacturers to exist in Taiwan as we have such a small population, Huang said. Of course, we can import labourers from Southeast Asian countries, but that can only be a shortterm solution. From a longterm perspective, manufacturers must adopt largescale automation.


As is the case in many developed countries, young people in Taiwan are reluctant to work in factories, making it difficult to staff production lines. Furthermore, compared to other manufacturing hubs in Asia, Taiwanese workers are expensive.
The Post previously reported that in a Foxconn factory in China
, workers earn a base salary of about 2,000 yuan (US$ 287) a month, which they supplement with long hours of overtime. Meanwhile, another company that recently fled China to avoid US tariffs, the Hong Kong furniture maker Man Wah Holdings, was offering staff in Vietnam
8 million Vietnamese dong (US$ 340) per month in 2018, the company said.

Taiwanese workers, on the other hand, earn about NT$ 30,000 (US$ 998) per month without working overtime, said Mr Wu, the manager of Techmans factory, who has spent 16 years working for the Quanta Group, and who preferred to give his family name.

In addition to moving its plant from China, Quanta announced in November that it had acquired an 11,000ping (36,355 square metre) property in Taoyuan worth NT$ 4.28 billion (US$ 142.4 million) to establish an artificial intelligence laboratory.
The government programme is specifically aimed at cutting investment in China and bringing it home. However, such straightforward language would not work in the current political climate Ma YuChun, ChungHua Institution for Economic Research

This sort of expansion is music to the ears of the Taiwanese government, which in 2019 launched a threeyear action plan to lure Taiwanese firms back home. The name of the programme translates from Chinese as Taiwanese firms repatriation.
Advertisement

As part of the drive, a new body, InvesTaiwan, was established under the Ministry of Economic Affairs (MOEA) to help the returnees secure land, water, electricity, labour and financing, as well as tax breaks.

The term repatriation could be easily misunderstood. The government programme is specifically aimed at cutting investment in China and bringing it home. However, such straightforward language would not work in the current political climate, thats why repatriation is ﻿used as a more neutral expression, said Ma YuChun, assistant research fellow at the ChungHua Institution for Economic Research, a Taipeibased government think tank.
There are prerequisites to the government plan, which many people fail to realise. To be entitled to government incentives, the repatriating companies must have invested in the mainland for at least two years and must have been affected by the USChina trade war, and must have intelligent manufacturing technologies
, Ma added.

The government of Tsai Ingwen has been loudly trumpeting the stream of Taiwanese companies coming home. As of December 27, the MOEA claimed that it had approved investment applications from 165 enterprises worth NT$ 712.1 billion, creating 58,918 new jobs.

However, Tsais exuberance has been questioned by the Kuomintang (KMT), Taiwans major opposition party, which is regarded as the primary proChina force in island politics, and which claimed the ruling Democratic Progressive Party has exaggerated the trend.

As such, the repatriation has become a hot topic of debate between Taiwans two main political parties ahead of Saturdays presidential election. Caught between Beijing and Taipei, repatriating manufacturers are cautious in what they say, since many still maintain facilities in China.

At an MOEA meeting last year, former government official Chiou Jiunnrong was shown a long list of Taiwanese firms wishing to repatriate, but asked that their names not be disclosed publicly. Taiwanese companies were having concerns because they still have facilities in China, said the former deputy minister of Taiwans National Development Council, the policyplanning agency.
Rising costs in China led to a small number of manufacturers returning to Taiwan starting in 2015, but the trend really gathered momentum after the trade war
began in July 2018, Chiou said in an interview with The Post.

Many of these companies already had factories in Taiwan, which they simply expanded rather than starting from scratch. Due to the difficulty in quickly sourcing land, some refitted facilities that were previously staff basketball courts or car parks.

The repatriation programme addresses a key obstacle for the local economy: a low ratio of investment to gross domestic product. This has become one of the biggest problems for Taiwans economic growth, Chiou said.

It has not exceeded 20 per cent since 2001 and is much lower than South Korea and China, so in the short term, Taiwans economy will be boosted by the repatriation, Chiou added.
The repatriation trend has also been a significant boost to Taiwanese exports
to the US, which grew by 17.17 per cent in 2019, according to Taiwan Ministry of Finance. The US now accounts for 14.05 per cent of Taiwans exports, up from 11.82 per cent in 2018.

It also marks a reversal of a longterm trend where Taiwanese producers  like those from around the world  have capitalised on Chinas manufacturing conditions to become globally competitive.

From the initial wave of investment in the 1990s, the influx of Taiwanese companies into China peaked in 2010, with total investment of US$ 14.6 billion.
Quanta, which provides assembly services to clients like Dell, Sony and Lenovo, began relocating its manufacturing facilities to the mainland in 2000, developing three manufacturing cities
 in Shanghai, Chongqing, and Changshu in Jiangsu province.

At its peak in 2006, its Shanghai manufacturing compound employed over 30,000 workers, and was officially recognised as Chinas second largest exporter in 2005 by the Ministry of Commerce.

But Quantas luck in the mainland ran out in 2008, the global financial crisis hit Chinese exports, while a shrinking labour force and rising wages led to rising employment costs.
Taiwan presidential election: ads reflect contrasting campaigns of hopefuls Tsai Ingwen and Han Kuo

The company also created some of its own problems. In 2014, China Labour Watch reported multiple cases of misconduct at the Shanghai plant, including compulsory overtime, and insulting management of workers. Hundreds of workers went on strike at the plant the next year, while the Shanghai authorities began to view its lowend manufacturing jobs as a liability rather than a strength.

The trade war came at a time when rising costs and administrative issues in China were already causing many Taiwanese companies like Quanta to look elsewhere.

The MOEA approved 496 applications for investment in mainland China between January and October 2019, worth US$ 3.2 billion. The value of investment was down 53.88 per cent on 2018 levels, the first year of the trade war. The figure may not include some small businesses or investments made through Hong Kong or offshore companies.

However, many have learnt that leaving China is not always easy, since local governments are loath to lose the tax revenues and employment.

The majority of the repatriating firms are electronics manufacturers, which also formed the majority of Taiwanese investment in China in the past. If they withdraw their investment, the Chinese authorities could ask them to pay back all the previous tax exemptions, said Ma YuChun of the ChungHua Institution.
How sustainable is the repatriating? Nobody knows, because if there's a new US president and tariffs are off, will everybody return to China? Revital Shpangental, Anemone Ventures

Revital Shpangental is CEO of Taipeibased Anemone Ventures, a consultancy that helps tech companies set up in Taiwan. She said the trade war has helped attract more interest in doing business in Taiwan, but that there are major concerns over whether the Taiwanese electric power infrastructure can deal with the influx.

Taiwan is also struggling to maintain its professional talent. Taiwan needs to think beyond Taiwan, it needs to be a hub for international companies wanting to deploy their products and services to Asia. It still has an island mentality. In my opinion, Taiwan could be a global hub if it tackled a lot of the issues that it still has, said Shpangental.

How sustainable is the repatriating? Nobody knows, because if there's a new US president and tariffs are off, will everybody return to China? she continued. My thinking is that Taiwanese companies would definitely want to have a very strong footprint in China and continue to dance at both weddings.
